# monospace-font-list

My goal is to create a complete list of monospace fonts, to the extent
I can. Primarily for the fun of it, but sometimes I like to use fonts
that are really not all that programmer friendly when coding, or even
just when writing (in a text editor).

I've found a few lists here and there of programmer-friendly monospace
fonts, but none of them are exhaustive, and I also haven't seen any
lists that include fonts that are not necessarily
programmer-friendly. Namely, those inspired by or sourced from
20th-century typewriters.

Send an email to dse AT SIGN webonastick PERIOD com if you know of any
I've missed.  Or submit a patch---after all, this *is* a github
repository.

I might include images of screenshots, specimens, etc. in the future,
but for now this is a text-only list.

## Criteria

The only criteria for inclusion in this list are as follows:

-   That a font has to be monospace, and

-   that it (likely) has to have existed in a computerized format.

Other things that are not restrictions:

-   I accept free and open source fonts as well as commercial ones.

-   I accept programmer friendly fonts as well as fonts without
    programmer-friendly features.

If there are characters missing from the font I may or may not still
accept it for inclusion, possibly with a caveat.

If there are important characters, such as spaces or punctuation, that
are *not* the same width as other characters, I am likely to not
include it, or to include it in this list with a caveat.

Also I may or may not list all the grungy/rough/distressed fonts I can
find.

---

---

## The List of Fonts

See [monospace-font-list.md](monospace-font-list.md).

---

---

## Other Lists of Fonts

These lists, for the most part, do not attempt to be comprehensive,
as this one does.

-   https://github.com/chrissimpkins/codeface

-   http://luc.devroye.org/mono.html

-   http://consowah.blogspot.com/2007/06/monospacefixed-width-programmers-fonts.html

-   http://www.lowing.org/fonts/

-   http://www.cfcl.com/vlb/h/fontmono.html

## Collections of Fonts

-   http://int10h.org/oldschool-pc-fonts/fontlist/

-   https://github.com/chrissimpkins/codeface

-   https://github.com/Tecate/bitmap-fonts --- monospaced bitmap fonts for X11 --- I'll be adding these eventually. (02/19/2019)

## Font Patches

### Nerd Fonts

A collection of open source fonts, patched to add Font Awesome like
icons.

<https://github.com/ryanoasis/nerd-fonts>

### Powerline Fonts

A collection of open source fonts, patched to add characters for
Powerline.

<https://github.com/powerline/fonts>

## Reddit Threads

I posted about this project in [r/typewriters](https://www.reddit.com/r/typewriters/comments/aw9qb2/im_working_on_a_list_of_typewriter_monospace/),
[r/fonts](https://www.reddit.com/r/fonts/comments/aw9cn2/im_working_on_a_list_of_monospace_fonts_crosspost/),
and
[r/programming](https://www.reddit.com/r/programming/comments/aw9cv9/im_working_on_a_list_of_monospace_fonts_crosspost/),
in case you're looking for additional insight.

Not much love except in r/fonts though.

## Old Typewriter Typefaces

I'm listing this as a separate section, as there are many minor
variations among vintage typewriter typefaces that have not been yet
computerized.

-   [Olympia Typewriter Typeface Catalog](http://machinesoflovinggrace.com/manuals/OlympiaTypefaces.pdf)

-   [100 Typewriter Typefaces Compared](http://xoverit.blogspot.com/2014/03/100-typewriter-typefaces-compared.html)

-   Lots of entries in the [Typewriter Database](https://typewriterdatabase.com/) include specimens.

-   [pp. 519–532](https://archive.org/details/1923AmericanTypeFoundersSpecimenBookCatalogue/page/n539) of the [1923 American Type Founders Specimen Book & Catalogue](https://archive.org/details/1923AmericanTypeFoundersSpecimenBookCatalogue)
    ([higher resolution](https://archive.org/stream/1923AmericanTypeFoundersSpecimenBookCatalogue-Hi-resolution/1923ATFSpecimenBook_pt2#page/n217/mode/2up))

-   [pp. 582–584](https://archive.org/details/specimensoftypeb00amer/page/582) of the [ATF's 1897 Handy Specimen Book](https://archive.org/details/specimensoftypeb00amer)
